I love this graphic because it
is very representative of many
things.
We have in the axis of the X, forgiveness,
of the Y, we have the courage and
the risk.
And here we would have time.
And we will draw two curves, the
curve of value and the curve of risk.
Look at this beautiful piece.
The value will be green.
When you have an idea, it is not worth anything,
we have said it a thousand times,
parts of here.
It really is not worth anything, don’t be mistaken.
What we need to do is increase
the value quickly.
We will paint it like this and so on.
This is the curve of value.
Now we take the risk.
At this point, risk and value
are always inversely proportional.
At this point, the risk is very high.
The chances of failure are
90%.
What we need to do is reverse it.
We have to reduce the risk and the risk
would go like that.
In general, it is important to keep
in mind that this always happens.
As you validate, learn,
evolve a business model,
you increase
value and risk
decreases.
Here it is a high risk investment
and here it is a lower risk
investment.
And that’s why there are investors
who like to go into different stages
looking for different returns.
Well, what we have to be very
good is in this first phase,
here.
And here we will define the milestone that
is Problem Solution Fit.
This is the first of the Power
Launch Formula.
How do we Problem Solution
Fit?
How can we increase the
value and reduce the
risk?
Well, validating the main
hypotheses of your business model,
that at this point the most basic
are the problem, that there is the
problem, that you have given
with a solution or with a value
proposal that solves or that, forgive
me, that gives response to
that problem, that you want
to buy customers, etc.
We will see it in detail.
But what I want you to stay with
is that if you do this very well in
very little time and spend
little money, you create a lot
of value because you go from having
something that is absolutely nothing
worth something, well, that we have
already validated in the market
with customers that can make sense,
is the basis for mounting a business
and above the risk is much
smaller.
At this point it makes sense,
for example, that we look
for funding with the Full Friends
and Family or it makes sense that
you build, that you start building
a MVP, that I don’t know, that
you invest some money or
that you leave your job.
It makes sense here.
Why is?
Because the risk is not so high,
the risk is not here, a middle
point of risk.
What happens is that people do not
usually do it well and entrepreneurs
have an idea and instead of looking
for a problem solution fit, instead
of trying to validate the main
hypotheses, what they do is focus
on things that do not matter, because
they start here to look for financing
or what they do is look for
suppliers, they do not validate
that there is a fit in the market,
then what they do is not decrease
the risk, time passes, invest
money and do not decrease
the risk nor increase
the value.
So in short, what we will learn and
what we will be very good is to
create a lot of value in this initial
phase, validating the main hypotheses
to have a company that is
worth something and also decrease
the risk so that when you
start to take on something
more of risk, investment,
etc., it really makes
sense.